>> Scott Moss: All right, welcome back.
Hopefully everyone had enough
time to create some, or
create a mutation for the pets.
And if you had some more time to explore,
you might have even created some
update mutations, or delete mutations.
But let's just focus on
the creative mutation for pets.
Anybody have any questions before
I get started, or the solution?
>> Scott Moss: All right,
so let's do that.
So what we'll do is make a new type here
in the schema called mutation, like that.
And we'll make one for a new pet, you can
call it whatever you want, no right or
wrong here.
And it's gotta return a pet,
that's always required.
And I'm going to make a new pet input,
NewPetInput,
and that's always gotta
be a name with a string.
And it's always gotta be a type of string.
And let's say this is input, and
it absolutely has to take a new pet as
input, no if, ands, or buts about it.
So that's updating our schema to
have a mutation called new pet,
that takes an argument
with a name called input.
Whose type is a new pet input,
that's required, and
it returns a pet type that is
also non-null or required.
Everybody following me so far, yes?
Why do you need to require
that the pet is return?
Cuz what if the new pet creation fails?
If the new pet creation fails,
that's a good question.
So this non-null thing
does not account for
any errors that might
happen to your resolver.
This is saying if your
resolver did return, so
assuming no errors happened,
it better return a pet.
If an error did happen,
then that error is gonna be thrown and
knock this non-null error.
But yeah, good question.
>> Scott Moss: All right, so
then we will go to our resolvers here.
Uncomment this mutation thing,
and give it the same name,
newPet, just like we did our queries.
We have nothing here, we have an input
here, and we got some context here.
So I'm just gonna return, or
I shall say be very explicit about this.
Pet = ctx.models.pet.create,
I believe is the method.
And it should be able to just
pass an input there, and
I was gonna return the pet.
Pretty simple, let's start this.
All right, nothing broke,
that's always good when nothing breaks, so
it's a good feeling
>> Scott Moss: And
cool, we got a new pet mutation here.
Input looks good,
new pet input, that's non-null.
Pet type looks good, new input,
non-null name, non-null type.
Everything is looking good,
so let's do that.
So make a new mutation here,
and we'll say new pet.
>> Scott Moss: And we'll go ahead and
pass our input, which is an object type.
And it takes a name, Daryl.
I really miss Daryl,
if you hadn't noticed, and a type cat.
So look at the ID, make sure the ID
got created, look at the type,
let me get the created at,
see what happens.
Boom, there we go, got a new path here.
So if we were to go look at the db.json,
we can see that,
here it is,
here's the path that got created.
So you created Daryl, and
it returned to previous Daryl.
No, your mutator,
your query returns three for every ID.
Yeah.
The ID is just three.
Not in a string.
Yeah, I should get rid of [INAUDIBLE]
that's confusing, there we go.
[LAUGH] Let me get rid of that,
I'm sorry, that was really confusing.
Let's run that again there.
There we go, there's another one.
Any questions on the mutation stuff?
So how come that doesn't update then,
instead of why isn't it updating?
Cuz we already have a Daryl that's a cat.
Are you saying why is it not updating
the Daryl that we already had?
Because we didn't write
the resolver to do that.
So if you wanted to do that, so I mean,
let's look at the mutation here,
this mutation.
All it does is create it,
we didn't tell it to update.
If you wanted to do an update,
then I would make another resolver,
and another mutation called update that,
like this.
And this will take in something like that.
It'll take in an input, which is
whatever fields you want to update,
taking the context, stuff like that.
And then I would say pet = ctx dot,
or context.models.pet.
And if I had an update method on here,
which I don't, I would just say update.
And I would say first
find it by the input.id.
And then I wanna use an input.updates,
which are the updates
that I want to get back on the pet and
return that like that.
And then you'd just have to go make
this mutation inside your schema.
So it's because we just
didn't do anything.
I mean, we didn't account for that, we
can do whatever we want in our resolvers.
And we didn't choose to account for that,
we just went ahead and created a new one.
And this is not a real database,
so names and stuff aren't indexed, so
you can just make whatever you want.
Any other questions?
So GraphQL doesn't care about what
these mutations do, and how they do it.
Exactly.
Do any of the frameworks have constructs
for that stuff, or is it you use
bit freewheel to do what you want?
You can do whatever the hell you want.
There's literally nothing,
that's the whole point of it.
The closest you're gonna get to that is
you're gonna get helpers from libraries,
or from frameworks that help
you do whatever you want.
There's things like data loaders that
help with runtime response queries.
There's things like data sources that
Apollo actually provides to help you use,
to interact with third-party rest APIs.
There's bindings to databases like Prisma.
Prisma does that.
Prisma binds to a database, and
gives you like a GraphQL ORM.
So you can basically query your database
using a query, using a GraphQL query.
That sounded really complicated,
but that's what that does.
But yeah, you could do whatever you want,
there's no restrictions around it.
The only restriction is that your
resolver returns the specified type for
the field that it's responsible for,
how you do it doesn't matter.
All in the same lines, admittedly,
my brain conflates GraphQL
with graph database.
Yeah, they kinda work hand in hand, yeah.
Is there any tradeoffs with using
relational database in the graph database?
Are there tradeoffs with trying to use
GraphQL with relational databases?
I mean, do you find yourself butting up
against performance issues with that?
So we're about to get into relations,
I wanna talk about that a little more.
But yes, there are performance issues, but
just like you using a rest architecture,
there is different solutions there.
You have to get a lot more creative with
those solutions, because it's not as
simple as just throwing Redis in front
of your database and calling it a day.
It's literally not that
simple with GraphQL,
because anyone can enter
your graph at any node.
And it's like, what do you do?
You cast a whole response of that query?
Cool, I added a new field.
It's a different query now.
Okay, I must have cached it.
So there's a lot of different
things you have to account for, but
I'll talk about those, the specific
performance stuff in the events course.
But yes, you will have performance issues,
100%, guaranteed.